For lab06 in CS 344 at Calvin University
By: Tyler Poel
Date: March 13, 2020

Exercise 6.2:
Using the example of identifying whether an email in Gmail is “important” or not.

Exercise 1:
We want the machine learned model to correctly identify and mark "important" emails.

Exercise 2:
Our ideal outcome is that only truly "important" emails are marked as such, and that other emails do not
receive any marking.

Exercise 3:
A success metric is the number of emails correctly labeled as important or not.
Our key results (KR) for the success metrics are a percentage of correctly labeled emails above 95%.
Our ML model is deemed a failure if our "important" labeling is no better than randomly guessing.

Exercise 4:
The output from our ML model will be emails either labeled as important or not labeled.
The output is defined as a classification problem that picks the label "important", or not.

Exercise 5:
The output from the ML model will be made when a new email is received.
The outcome will be used for putting a visual marking on an email that shows it's been marked as "important."

Exercise 6:
If we didn't us ML we would have to write a program that searched for specific words or phrases in the email
to decide if it was important or not.

Exercise 7:
Our problem is best framed as a Binary classification which predicts if an email is important or not.
This problem is already a simpler binary classification problem.

Exercise 8:
Each "row" is an email. The different inputs can be a list containing all the words in the email and the length of
the email.The output for one piece of data (a single email) is if the email is important or not.

Exercise 9:
The inputs come from the individual emails, by breaking up the emails into the individual words it contains, and then
also keeping track of how long each email is.

Exercise 10:
I think the list of words in the email would be the easiest and most helpful input to obtain. The types of words and
language used in an "important" email could be very indicative of what type of email it is.